---
layout: post
title:  "Who is speaking at the workshop?"
date:   2021-10-20
description:
tags: [AI, democracy, ethics]
comments: true
share: true
authors: [Katharina Anderer]
typora-copy-images-to: ../media/katharina/
typora-root-url: ../
---



As the use of Machine Learning algorithms and Artificial Intelligence pervades all areas of
our lives and societies, it also affects fundamental pillars of democracy, such as public
debate, political decision making and (dis)information through media. In our PhD workshop
entitled “*Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning research and democracy – an*
*interdisciplinary perspective*” we will provide a platform for young researchers from all
relevant disciplines – from dedicated machine learning research to political science and
every nuance in between – to engage in exchange of methods and current state of the art
research. Our guiding question will be:

*How can we shape the co-development of AI/ ML research and democracy?*

A special focus will be put on the role and responsibility we as young researchers can take
in this process. In a three-step procedure, we will first take an account of the status quo by
identifying the perils and potentials of AI/ML for democracy. Next, we will broaden the scope
of the discussion to address questions of responsibility in research and different stances on
technological determinism. In a last third step, we will get inspired by and develop own
visions of the future co-development of AI/ML and democracy, discuss the (un)desirability of
these visions and identify the actions that we as PhD students in AI/ML, philosophy, politics,
and other related disciplines can undertake to realize (or prevent) them. Being aware of the
challenge of bringing different disciplines together, we will put a focus on creative and
interactive formats to facilitate profound discussions during the workshop.





Workshop date: 29.1 – 31.1.2022 at the University of Tübingen



Organizers:

**Larissa Höflin**g holds a Bachelor’s degree in Cognitive Science (University Osnabrück) and a Master’s
degree in Neural Information Processing (University of Tübingen) and is currently pursuing a PhD in
Computational Neuroscience She has a strong interest in the societal and political dimensions of
research; she is a member of the PhD initiative sustainAbility and of KI macht Schule. By initiating and
organizing this workshop, she wants to create a platform for interdisciplinary networking and
exchange between young scientists training in the fields of machine learning, political sciences and
other relevant disciplines.

**Ilja Mirsky** (B.Sc. Cognitive Science, M.S. Performance Studies) is a PhD student in the department of
Media Studies at the University of Tübingen and at the Zurich University of the Arts. In his
interdisciplinary research he combines the fields of AI research and Human-Computer Interaction on
theatre stages. He is dramaturg at the “Institut für theatrale Zukunftsforschung” in the Zimmertheater
Tübingen and lecturer on subjects such as Virtual Reality, Augmented Reality and Digital Dramaturgy.

Contact:



<a href="mailto:larissa.hoefling@uni-tuebingen.de">larissa.hoefling@uni-tuebingen.de</a>



<a href="mailto:ilja.mirsky@uni-tuebingen.de">ilja.mirsky@uni-tuebingen.de</a>


